# Transpiler

Converts code from one programming language to another.

Pipeline

+-------------+     +-------+     +-------+      +-----+     +----------------+
| Source Code | --> | Lexer | --> | Parser | --> | AST | --> | Code Generator | --> Output Code
+-------------+     +-------+     +-------+      +-----+     +----------------+

## Lexer

The lexer reads in the source code and splits it into tokens. Each token has a
different representation, such as a identifier, number, string literal, or operator.

I will be using regex since it's a common way of implementing a lexer.

## Parser + AST

The parser takes in the tokens generated by the lexer and organizes them in
some sort of structured way. You'll find that they're typically in the form of an
AST.

You'll also perform semantic analysis where you run through the AST
and check for logical errors or inconsistencies, such as undefined
variables or type mismatching.

I have created a stack-programming language before and skipped creating
a parser because I used postfix notation, so I did not have to worry about
the user putting the operators in the wrong order.

## Code generations

Most programming languages now use LLVM where they use intermediate representation (IR)
where the AST is converted to a simplified, language independent form.

The code generator is where it will map constructs from the source language to the target
language.

I will be traversing through the AST and generating a new structure based on the
typescripts syntax.

